The A3 Cabriolet, though, proved to be rather practical (with its neat roof arraignment and proper seating for four) when we first sampled it back in 2015., Fast forward to today and we have just driven the 2017 A3 Cabriolet which brings everything that was good about the old version, but adds edgier styling, new paint options and a substantially different driving experience.
As for the operability, the roof takes 18 seconds to go up and down and can be operated at speeds of up to 50kmph., The cabin design may appear slightly dull but there is no denying that it’s beautifully made and finished to the standard you would expect of a high-end Audi.
What it doesn’t get though are features like start/stop button, keyless entry and electric adjustment for the seats., The biggest change on the new A3 Cabriolet can be found as soon as you peek under the hood.
Where this 1.4 cannot match the bigger motor though is during in-gear acceleration – it doesn’t pull as hard as the older car despite the engine’s strong mid-range and top-end.
We also felt some delay in the gearbox transferring torque to the front wheels under hard launches., The new A3 sedan impressed us as far as dynamics are concerned and the same holds true to the Cabriolet.
Riding on fairly high profile tyres, it’s suspension ably deals with rough roads, and the whole car remains well planted – something not every convertible vehicle can claim.
At high speeds, however, there is some wind noise coming from around the rear quarter glass when driving with the roof up., As for the steering feel, it’s light around town and overall, surprisingly direct and offers a nice level of feel and feedback.
Although there is some body roll when you want to clear your head with some spirited driving, the A3 stays composed and never feels unnerving even near the limit of grip., Even though it’s based on their entry-level sedan, the A3 Cabriolet is far off Audi India’s mainstream offerings.
Price wise, the closest 2-door convertible comes from Mini Cooper which costs a lot less at Rs 34.90 lakh but the fact remains that it’s nowhere as practical or well put together as the A3., Indeed for its willing powertrain, quality cabin and the neat roof, the A3 Cabriolet should muscle its way towards the top of the list for those looking for the unmatchable thrill of driving under the sun, with infinite headroom and the ‘wind rush’.
We wish the 2017 model had more equipment, but when it looks this good and attracts as many eyeballs as it does, it’s safe to say that Audi has delivered on something that should appeal to the target buyer in a manner precisely as intended., Want the CarTrade True Price for this car?