





































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































(continued)

ANSWERS 
by heart

Every 34 seconds, someone dies from heart and 
blood vessel diseases, America’s No. 1 killer. 
Since most of those deaths are from coronary heart 
disease — over 375,000 each year — it’s important 
to learn all you can about heart attack. 

For example, you should know the warning signs of 
heart attack so you can get help right away, either 
for yourself or someone close to you. 

Some heart attacks are sudden and intense. But most 
start slowly, with mild pain or discomfort. Here are 
some of the signs that can mean a heart attack is 
happening:

•  Uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness or 
pain in the center of your chest. It lasts more than 
a few minutes, or goes away and comes back.

•  Pain or discomfort in one or both arms, your back, 
neck, jaw or stomach.

•  Shortness of breath with or without chest 
discomfort.

•  Other signs such as breaking out in a cold sweat, 
nausea or lightheadedness.

If you or someone you’re with has chest discomfort, 
especially with one or more of the other signs, 
immediately call 9-1-1 or the emergency medical 
services (EMS) in your area (fire department or 
ambulance). Get to a hospital right away.

What causes a heart attack?

A heart attack occurs when the blood flow to a 
part of the heart is blocked (often by a blood clot). 
This happens because coronary arteries that supply 
the heart with blood slowly become thicker and 
harder from a buildup of fat, cholesterol and other 
substances, called plaque.

If the plaque breaks open and a blood clot forms that 

blocks the blood flow, a heart attack occurs. Then the 
heart muscle supplied by that artery begins to die. 
Damage increases the longer an artery stays blocked.

Once that muscle dies, the result is permanent heart 
damage.

How can I recover?

Depending on the extent of your heart attack, you 
may only be in the hospital a few days. But your 
recovery is just beginning.

•  Start making changes in your life now to reduce 
your risk of having another heart attack. Eat heart-
healthy meals, be more physically active, reach and 
maintain a healthy weight, and don’t smoke.

•  Talk with your doctor and nurses about how you 
can live as normal a life as possible. Ask how soon 
you can go back to work, drive a car, have sex, and 
what to do if you have chest discomfort. They can 
answer your questions about other matters, too.

What Is a Heart 
Attack?

Cardiovascular Conditions

Clot in coronary 
artery preventing 
blood flow

Plaque buildup



Cardiovascular ConditionsANSWERS 
by heart What Is a Heart Attack?

ANSWERS 
by heart

•  Talk with your healthcare provider about joining a 
cardiac rehabilitation program in your area.

How can I reduce my risk for a heart 
attack?

Even if you have heart disease, there’s a lot you can 
do to improve your heart’s health. Work with your 
healthcare provider to set goals to reduce your risk of 
heart attack.

•  Don’t smoke, and avoid second-hand smoke.

•  Treat high blood pressure, if you have it.

•  Eat a healthy diet that’s low in saturated fat, trans 
fat, and sodium (salt).

•  Get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity 
physical activity a week.

•  Reach and maintain a healthy weight.

•  Control your blood sugar if you have diabetes.

•  See your doctor for regular check-ups.

•  Take your medicines exactly as prescribed.

Take a few minutes to 
write your questions for 
the next time you see 
your healthcare provider.

For example:

Call 1-800-AHA-USA1  
(1-800-242-8721), or visit heart.org  
to learn more about heart disease and 

stroke.

Sign up to get Heart Insight, a free 

magazine for heart patients and their 

families, at heartinsight.org. 

Connect with others sharing similar 

journeys with heart disease and stroke 

by join-ing our Support Network at 

heart.org/supportnetwork. 

We have many other fact sheets to help you make healthier choices to reduce your risk, 
manage disease or care for a loved one. Visit heart.org/answersbyheart to learn more. 

HOW CAN I LEARN MORE? Do you have 
questions for the 
doctor or nurse?

©2015, American Heart Association

How soon can I 
return to work after 
my heart attack?
Is there a cardiac 
rehab program in my 
area?

Getting exercise and improving your diet are among the many things 
you can do to avoid a heart attack.

My Questions:


